Some general thoughts on the whole series of changes.

1. We are not trying to track the individual changes which bring further
divergence with Debian because it's too difficult given the already
existing huge divergence... (That's how I understand darktemplar@'s
answers.) So, we shouldn't take this into account when making
decisions about our changes.

2. For discussion, I'd group the changes into 3 groups:

- Refactoring.
- Setting the flags during the actions (such as install, dist-upgrade).
- Autoremove algorithm and action, apt-mark additional tool.

IMO, it's important that the "Setting the flags during the actions
(such as install, dist-upgrade)" part works correctly, and--of
course--that the refactoring leads to equivalent/better code. As for
the autoremove algorithm (the really useful thing for the user), it
can be easily modified or re-implemented on top of the flags if the
users are not satisfied. (Perhaps, it's even possible experiment in
Lua and make use of the auto-flags from Lua, isn't it?)

The refactoring changes have not yet been checked thoroughly by me
(although there is substantial progress thanks to the discovery of
"git diff -w --color-moved" in Git>=2.15 and thanks to darktemplar@
splitting the commit into just moving the code
and--separately--improving the code).

After my review, I believe the "Setting the flags during different
actions (such as install, dist-upgrade)" does not break the old
behavior.

As for the interaction with RPM, I don't have a good knowledge of the
RPM API to check it.

3. An idea came up to me after reading these changes: it concerns the
"Setting the flags during different actions (such as install,
dist-upgrade)" part, how to make it more clear and convincing.

(I'll try to suggest such a change in the code. Let's not worry if it
diverges from Debian even more.)

To make sure that the decision how to change the flag was consciously
made by the programmer in all cases, I'd add the value of the
auto-flag as an obligatory parameter to all functions which create
packages or modify their state, such as NewPackage(), MarkInstall()
etc. and perhaps everything that modifies StateCache structure. (If
the auto-flag value is explicit, then it is an explicit decision how
to change the auto-flag on every kind of change and no cases are
overlooked.)
